tools/README.md, before:

# Pushgate Setup Tools

This directory contains utility scripts for setting up and managing Pushgate.

## Guided Setup Script

- `setup_pushgate.py`: Interactive script to help you set up secrets and initialize the database.
  - Prompts for admin password, Pushover app token, and user key.
  - Offers to generate a Fernet encryption key (or use an existing one).
  - Writes secrets to `/run/secrets/` (or a directory you specify).
  - Initializes the database.

### Usage

```bash
python tools/setup_pushgate.py
```

Follow the prompts to complete setup. You can re-run this script to update secrets or re-initialize the database.

## Database Initialization Only

- `init_db.py`: Initializes the database tables only (no secrets setup).

### Usage

```bash
python tools/init_db.py
```

This will create all tables as defined in the current models.

## Requirements

Before running the setup or init scripts, ensure you have the following Python modules installed:

- sqlalchemy
- cryptography
- jinja2
- requests

You can install all required modules with:

```bash
pip install -r ../requirements.txt
```

(Assuming you are in the `tools/` directory; adjust the path as needed.)

---

Commit message:

Update documentation for secrets management and migration process

tools/README.md, after:

# Pushgate Setup Tools

This directory contains utility scripts for setting up and managing Pushgate.

## Guided Setup Script

- `setup_pushgate.py`: Interactive script to help you set up secrets and initialize the database.
  - Prompts for admin password, Pushover app token, and user key.
  - Offers to generate a Fernet encryption key (or use an existing one).
  - Writes secrets to `/run/secrets/` (or a directory you specify).
  - Initializes the database.

### Usage

```bash
python tools/setup_pushgate.py
```

Follow the prompts to complete setup. You can re-run this script to update secrets or re-initialize the database.

## Database Initialization Only

- `init_db.py`: Initializes the database tables only (no secrets setup).

### Usage

```bash
python tools/init_db.py
```

This will create all tables as defined in the current models.

## Requirements

Before running the setup or init scripts, ensure you have the following Python modules installed:

- sqlalchemy
- cryptography
- jinja2
- requests

You can install all required modules with:

```bash
pip install -r ../requirements.txt
```

(Assuming you are in the `tools/` directory; adjust the path as needed.)

## Secrets Management

- The only secret that must remain in the `secrets/` directory is the Fernet encryption key (`fernet_key`).
- Admin password and Pushover keys are now stored encrypted in the database and managed via the admin UI.
- Use `tools/migrate_secrets_to_db.py` to migrate secrets from files to the database if upgrading.

---
